## Showcasing Beaker
This is a direct comparison of the simple calculator contract written in Beaker and bare PyTeal and it shows how Beaker simplifies writing smart contracts and interacting with them.

## Contents

    calculator-pyteal/ - Directory containing calculator app and interactions in bare PyTeal and Python SDK
    approval.teal - autogenerated calculator TEAL approval program
    clear.teal - autogenerated calculator TEAL clear program
    contract.json - A JSON file describing the interface of the contract to be read by SDK clients
    contract.py - A calculator PyTeal contract that generates a set of methods that can be called as ABI methods
    interact.py - A set of interaction calls that uses the Python SDK to interact with the calculator app
    sandbox.py - helper method that fetch accounts from sandbox

    calculator-beaker/ - Directory containing calculator app and interactions in Beaker
    calculator.py - A calculator Beaker contract and interaction calls with Beaker

## Development Environment

### Install Sandbox

Install the [sandbox](https://github.com/algorand/sandbox) to start a local private node and start it with the `source` configuration.

NOTE: Currently Beaker requires a sandbox running with the source config (or any config that contains this [commit](https://github.com/algorand/go-algorand/pull/4198))

If you're in the sandbox directory run:

```
./sandbox up source
```

### Clone repository

Next, clone this repository and cd to the root directory.


### Setup Virtual Environment

Create a virtual environment inside the project directory.

```
python3 -m venv venv
```

Activate virtual environment.

```
source ./venv/bin/activate
```

requirements.txt file contains all of the required dependencies and packages. Install them in your virtual environment by running:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Check all dependencies and packages install in your virtual environment by running: 

```
pip list
```
## Testing Calculator App with Bare PyTeal and Python SDK

### Compile Contract

After double checking that sandbox is running, go into the calculator-pyteal directory and run:

```
python3 contract.py
```

This will create the teal source files in approval.teal and clear.teal, and contract.json ABI file.

### Deploy and Interact 

```
python3 interact.py 
```

This will deploy and interact with the calculator app. 

## Testing Calculator App with Beaker

###  Compile, Deploy, and Interact

Go into the calculator-beaker directory and run:

```
python3 calculator.py
```

This will compile, deploy, and interact with the calculator app.
